Deprecation policy - insert considerations for breaking changes (#6298)
pytest-dev/pytest: doc/en/backwards-compatibility.rst

Backwards Compatibility Policy
==============================

.. versionadded: 6.0

> pytest is actively being evolved and as a project that is been decades in the making,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pytest is actively being evolved and as a project that has been decades in the making,
```

> pytest is actively being evolved and as a project that is been decades in the making,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pytest is actively evolving and is a project that has been decades in the making,
```

we keep learning about new and better structures to express different details about testing.

> While we implement those we try to ensure easy transition and don't want to impose unnecessary churn on our users and community/plugin authors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While we implement those modifications we try to ensure easy transition and don't want to impose unnecessary churn on our users and community/plugin authors.
```

> While we implement those we try to ensure easy transition and don't want to impose unnecessary churn on our users and community/plugin authors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we implement those we try to ensure an easy transition and don't want to impose unnecessary churn on our users and community/plugin authors.
```

> We are considering multipe Types of backward compatibility considering transitions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As of now, pytest considers multipe types of backward compatibility transitions:
```

After all we are not considering changing, we are changing correct?

Reviewer 2: "multiple" as well

> a) trivial: api's which trivially translate to the new mechanism,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**a) trivial**: APIs which trivially translate to the new mechanism,
```

>    and do not cause problematic details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   and do not cause problematic changes.
```

>    We try to support those indefinitely while encouraging users to switch to newer/better mechanisms.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   We try to support those indefinitely while encouraging users to switch to newer/better mechanisms through documentation.
```

>    We try to support those indefinitely while encouraging users to switch to newer/better mechanisms.

Reviewer: Here and several times below, I don't think these indents render e.g. https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest/blob/de33fd5d357120588a295b59828da6918148fe0a/doc/en/backwards-compatibility.rst

```suggestion
We try to support those indefinitely while encouraging users to switch to newer/better mechanisms.
```

Author: just tried, those work fine

Reviewer: Rechecking myself, I agree they work fine. Sorry for the false alarm!

> b) transitional: the old and new api don't conflict

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**b) transitional**: the old and new API don't conflict
```

>    and we can help while supporting both for a prolonged time

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   and we can help users transition by using warnings, while supporting both for a prolonged time.
```

   We will only start the removal of deprecated functionality in major releases (e.g. if we deprecate something in 3.0 we will start to remove it in 4.0), and keep it around for at least two minor releases (e.g. if we deprecate something in 3.9 and 4.0 is the next release, we start to remove it in 5.0, not in 4.0).

   When the deprecation expires (e.g. 4.0 is released), we won't remove the deprecated functionality immediately, but will use the standard warning filters to turn them into **errors** by default. This approach makes it explicit that removal is imminent, and still gives you time to turn the deprecated feature into a warning instead of an error so it can be dealt with in your own time. In the next minor release (e.g. 4.1), the feature will be effectively removed.

> 

Reviewer: Delete a couple of new lines

> c) true breakage: should only to be cosidered when a combination of transition seems unreasonably unsustainable and would offset important development/features by years

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**c) true breakage**: should only to be cosidered when normal transition is unreasonably unsustainable and would offset important development/features by years.
```

>    In addition they shuld be limited to apis where the number of actual users is very small and can be coordinated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   In addition, they shuld be limited to APis where the number of actual users is very small (for example only impacting some plugins), and can be coordinated with the community in advance.
```

Reviewer: "APIs" :)

>    Examples for such upcinging changes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Examples for such upcoming changes:
```

>    * removal of ``pytest_runtest_protocol/nextitem``

Reviewer 3: Here we should either 1) explain why those should go and which impact they have or 2) link to an issue number

I understand some of them might not have an issue number yet (I think this one in particular doesn't), but as it is the examples are meaningless to users (and I suspect even some core devs), so they are not very useful.

   * rearranging of the node tree to include FunctionDefinition
   * rearranging of setupstate

>    True Breakages must be anounced first and only after coordination should be followed up by a initial POC Pull Request.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   True Breakages must be anounced first in an issue containing: 
   
   * Detailed description of the change
   * Rationale
   * Expected impact on users and plugin authors
   
   After there's no hard *-1* on the issue it should be followed up by a initial POC Pull Request.
   
```

>    True Breakages must be anounced first and only after coordination should be followed up by a initial POC Pull Request.

Reviewer: Spell out POC on first use, use POC for subsequent. 
```suggestion
   True breakages must be anounced first and only after coordination should be followed up by a initial proof-of-concept pull request.
```

>    This Proof of Concept serves as both, coordination point to assess Impact and potential inspriation to come up with a transitional solution after all.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   This Proof of Concept serves as both, coordination point to assess Impact and potential inspriation to come up with a transitional solution after all.
   
```

>    This Proof of Concept serves as both, coordination point to assess Impact and potential inspriation to come up with a transitional solution after all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This POC serves as both, coordination point to assess Impact and potential inspriation to come up with a transitional solution after all.
```

>    After a reasonable amount of time the PR can be merged to base a new Major release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   After a reasonable amount of time the PR can be merged to base a new Major release.
   
```

>    After a reasonable amount of time the PR can be merged to base a new Major release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   After a reasonable amount of time the PR can be merged to base a new major release.
```

>    The PR must contain a setup of DeprecationErrors that help fixing the related issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   For the PR to mature from POC to acceptance, it must contain:
   * Setup of deprecation errors/warnings that help users fix and port their code. Note that if it is possible to introduce a deprecation period under the current series, before the true breakage, it should be introduced in a separate PR and be part of the current release stream.
   * Detailed description of the rationale and examples on how to port code in ``doc/en/deprecations.rst``.
```

Also I think this and the previous paragraph should be swapped.

History
=========

> 

Reviewer: Can delete a bunch of newlines before and after History

> focus primary on smoth transition - stance (pre 6.0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Focus primary on smooth transition - stance (pre 6.0)
```

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

   When the deprecation expires (e.g. 4.0 is released), we won't remove the deprecated functionality immediately, but will use the standard warning filters to turn them into **errors** by default. This approach makes it explicit that removal is imminent, and still gives you time to turn the deprecated feature into a warning instead of an error so it can be dealt with in your own time. In the next minor release (e.g. 4.1), the feature will be effectively removed.

c) true breakage: should only to be considered when normal transition is unreasonably unsustainable and would offset important development/features by years.
   In addition, they should be limited to APIs where the number of actual users is very small (for example only impacting some plugins), and can be coordinated with the community in advance.

   Examples for such upcoming changes:

   * removal of ``pytest_runtest_protocol/nextitem``
   * rearranging of the node tree to include ``FunctionDefinition``
   * rearranging of ``SetupState``

   True breakages must be announced first in an issue containing:

   * Detailed description of the change
   * Rationale

>    * Expected impact on users and plugin authors

Reviewer 3: We should link an existing issue that describes this type of breakage as an example (and is also an exercise to ensure the constructor API is following this protocol).

Author: followup in #6324

Backwards Compatibility Policy
==============================

.. versionadded: 6.0

pytest is actively evolving and is a project that has been decades in the making,
we keep learning about new and better structures to express different details about testing.

While we implement those modifications we try to ensure easy transition and don't want to impose unnecessary churn on our users and community/plugin authors.

As of now, pytest considers multipe types of backward compatibility transitions:

**a) trivial**: APIs which trivially translate to the new mechanism,
   and do not cause problematic changes.

   We try to support those indefinitely while encouraging users to switch to newer/better mechanisms through documentation.

**b) transitional**: the old and new API don't conflict

>    and we can help users transition by using warnings, while supporting both for a prolonged time.

Reviewer: This renders a little strangely in GitHub:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1324225/69936491-a31c6b80-14e0-11ea-8338-07f2e4d5bbc8.png)

https://github.com/RonnyPfannschmidt/pytest/blob/deprecation-breakage/doc/en/backwards-compatibility.rst#backwards-compatibility-policy

   We will only start the removal of deprecated functionality in major releases (e.g. if we deprecate something in 3.0 we will start to remove it in 4.0), and keep it around for at least two minor releases (e.g. if we deprecate something in 3.9 and 4.0 is the next release, we start to remove it in 5.0, not in 4.0).

   When the deprecation expires (e.g. 4.0 is released), we won't remove the deprecated functionality immediately, but will use the standard warning filters to turn them into **errors** by default. This approach makes it explicit that removal is imminent, and still gives you time to turn the deprecated feature into a warning instead of an error so it can be dealt with in your own time. In the next minor release (e.g. 4.1), the feature will be effectively removed.

> **c) true breakage**: should only to be cosidered when normal transition is unreasonably unsustainable and would offset important development/features by years.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**c) true breakage**: should only to be considered when normal transition is unreasonably unsustainable and would delay important development/features by years.
```

>    In addition, they shuld be limited to APis where the number of actual users is very small (for example only impacting some plugins), and can be coordinated with the community in advance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In addition, they should be limited to APIs where the number of actual users is very small (for example only impacting some plugins), and can be coordinated with the community in advance.
```

   Examples for such upcoming changes:

   * removal of ``pytest_runtest_protocol/nextitem``

>    * rearranging of the node tree to include FunctionDefinition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * rearranging of the node tree to include ``FunctionDefinition``
```

>    * rearranging of setupstate

Reviewer: Is it this?
```suggestion
   * rearranging of ``SetupState``
```

>    True Breakages must be anounced first in an issue containing: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   True breakages must be announced first in an issue containing: 
```

   
   * Detailed description of the change
   * Rationale
   * Expected impact on users and plugin authors
   

>    After there's no hard *-1* on the issue it should be followed up by a initial POC Pull Request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   After there's no hard *-1* on the issue it should be followed up by an initial proof-of-concept pull request.
```

>    This POC serves as both, coordination point to assess Impact and potential inspriation to come up with a transitional solution after all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This POC serves as both a coordination point to assess impact and potential inspiration to come up with a transitional solution after all.
```

   
   After a reasonable amount of time the PR can be merged to base a new major release.
   
   For the PR to mature from POC to acceptance, it must contain:

>    * Setup of deprecation errors/warnings that help users fix and port their code. Note that if it is possible to introduce a deprecation period under the current series, before the true breakage, it should be introduced in a separate PR and be part of the current release stream.

Reviewer: "Note that" can be omitted for brevity:
```suggestion
   * Setup of deprecation errors/warnings that help users fix and port their code. If it is possible to introduce a deprecation period under the current series, before the true breakage, it should be introduced in a separate PR and be part of the current release stream.
```

   * Detailed description of the rationale and examples on how to port code in ``doc/en/deprecations.rst``.

History
=========

Focus primary on smooth transition - stance (pre 6.0)

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```
